---
layout: post
title:  "[Call for Applications] EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Intelligent Games and Game Intelligence (IGGI) 2021"
categories: [IGGI, PhD]
tags: [applications, iggi, phd]
excerpt: "Around 12 fully funded PhD studentships split between Queen Mary University of London and the University of York, starting September 2022. Covers fees and a stipend for up to four years. Deadline: 12:00PM (GMT) on Thursday 27th January 2022"
mathjax: false
img: /img/posts/iggi.jpg
---

* content
{:toc}

**Around 12 fully funded PhD studentships split between Queen Mary University of London and the University of York, starting September 2022.**

Covers fees and a stipend for up to four years.

IGGI is an exciting opportunity to undertake a four-year PhD in Intelligent Games and Game Intelligence, working with world-leading academics, game companies, and social organisations on games research that matters. We are seeking diverse and motivated candidates to join our 70+ current PhD students conducting interdisciplinary research on topics such as:
* Using machine learning (ML) and other forms of artificial intelligence (AI) to create interesting, fun, believable game agents
* Augmented creativity tools that support game designers and developers, e.g. procedural content generation, AI-assisted game design and testing
* Understanding player experience, games user research, and game analytics
* Game audio and music
* Interaction, user experience, and learning design for games
* Using games and gamification to support wellbeing, learning, or social change
* Using Esports and other game data to study human behaviour and psychology
* Using game AI and other game ideas to improve real-world decision making


## Why apply to IGGI

IGGI is a collaboration between the University of York and Queen Mary, University of London. Both universities are committed to equality of opportunity - in work and study - for all, and both are current holders of the Athena Swan Bronze Award.

The IGGI programme trains PhD researchers to become the next generation of leaders in games research, design, and development and create positive social and economic impact through games.

You will receive focused skills training in game design, games research methods, game development, game AI, responsible innovation, and engaging users and the public with your work. In addition, you will have access to optional training in a wide range of topics such as HCI, graphics, audio, psychology, or AI.

You will also have opportunities to collaborate with other students and researchers, make games, and share your work through
* the annual IGGI Game Jam, enhancing your skills in game design, development, and teamwork
* the annual IGGI Conference, showcasing student research alongside industry and academic speakers
* student-led events such as research seminars, game-playing evenings, or workshops

The IGGI Programme involves you working directly with industry and social partner organisations. Placements, research exchanges, and other forms of knowledge exchange will give you the possibility to make a direct positive impact, experience the games industry first hand, and collaborate with researchers and practitioners. Current IGGI students have worked with partner organisations such as Sony Interactive Entertainment, Bossa Studios, Google, Bloomberg, Media Molecule, BT, Splash Damage, Microsoft Research, and Sue Ryder. You can find a list of more IGGI partners at [https://iggi.org.uk/partners](https://iggi.org.uk/partners).

## Who should apply

IGGI students are a diverse group, and admission is decided on the basis of your potential to do excellent research and contribute to IGGI’s goal of making a positive impact with games research. We especially welcome applications from candidates belonging to groups that are currently under-represented in games research and industry; these include (but are not limited to) females, individuals from ethnic minorities, members of the LGBTQ+ community, people from low-income backgrounds, and people with physical disabilities.

## How to apply

If you are interested, please visit [http://iggi.org.uk/apply](http://iggi.org.uk/apply) for full details on the application process and a list of potential supervisors, or contact us at [apply@iggi.org.uk](mailto:apply@iggi.org.uk) with any questions.

We expect substantial competition and encourage interested applicants to submit applications as early as possible. Please apply before the strict closing date of 12:00 noon (GMT) on Thursday 27th January 2022.
